The sample and empty flag (#6978)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/empty-flag.md

---
title: "About the empty flag"

> description: "Use the empty flag to test your code and build your tables withoug populating data."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Use the empty flag to test your code and build your tables without populating data."
```

sidebar_label: "The empty flag"
pagination_next: "docs/build/sample-flag"
pagination_prev: null
---

# About the `--empty` flag

:::note

The `--empty` flag is not currently available for Python models. If the flag is used with a Python model, it will be ignored.

:::

> There are cases during dbt development where you'll want to validate that your models are semantically correct without the time-consuming cost of building the entire model in the data warehouse. The [`run`](/reference/commands/run) and [`build`](/reference/commands/run) commands support the `--empty` flag for building schema-only dry runs. The `--empty` flag limits the refs and sources to zero rows. dbt will still execute the model SQL against the target data warehouse but will avoid expensive reads of input data. This validates dependencies and ensures your models will build properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During dbt development, you might want to validate that your models are semantically correct without the time-consuming cost of building the entire model in the data warehouse. The [`run`](/reference/commands/run) and [`build`](/reference/commands/build) commands support the `--empty` flag for building schema-only dry runs. The `--empty` flag limits the refs and sources to zero rows. dbt will still execute the model SQL against the target data warehouse but will avoid expensive reads of input data. This validates dependencies and ensures your models will build properly.
```

### Examples

> Run the entire project while building only the schemas in your development environment:

Reviewer: Just wondering if we should specifically call out "all models" here. Unless you wanted to use a `build` command here where we're building all resources in a project?
```suggestion
Run all models in a project while building only the schemas in your development environment:
```

```
dbt run --empty
```

> Build a specific model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run a specific model:
```

```
dbt run --select path/to/your_model --empty
```

> dbt will then build and execute the SQL, resulting in an empty schema in the data warehouse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dbt will build and execute the SQL, resulting in an empty schema in the data warehouse.
```
